Netflix, Spotify, and Roku opened up
their ad inventory and data to Amazon.
[music]
And that triggered the biggest power
shift in advertising since Google took
over search. Here's why. Google knows
what you search for. YouTube knows what
you watch, but Amazon knows what you
actually buy. For decades, TV ads were
basically a guessing game. You spent the
money and hoped the right person saw.
But now, Amazon can take a decade of
purchase behavior from over 300 million
people and layer it directly over the
shows you're watching. And this changes
the game for two kinds of businesses.
First, e-commerce brands. Someone sees
your ad on Netflix, picks up their
phone, buys on Amazon, and Amazon can
actually connect that ad to the sale. No
more I think it worked. They can prove
it. Second, everyone else, software,
services, real estate, education,
because now you're not targeting people
who like tech, you're targeting people
who just spent money on tech. I'm Neil
Patel. I've been in digital marketing
for over two decades. And what Amazon is
building right now isn't just the ad
product. It's the infrastructure for
shoppable streaming. In this video, I'm
going to break down what just changed,
why it matters, and how to use it to get
unfair advantage. Starting now.
Chapter one. The walled gardens just
collapsed. For years, Netflix, Spotify,
and Roku guarded their ad inventory and
data like Fort Knox. You went platform
by platform. Netflix through its
partners, Spotify through its own sales
team, Roku, directly. That just ended.
Here's what happened. In October 2025,
Spotify opened their ad inventory to
Amazon. In June, Roku did the same. By
fourth quarter, Netflix joined them.
Now, Amazon's DSP sits in the middle of
80% of streaming households. DSP stands
for demandside platform. It's basically
Google ads for programmatic advertising.
Programmatic means software buys the ads
automatically through auctions in real
time. You set your budget, your
audience, and your creative. The
platform does the rest. [music] And
here's why these streaming platforms are
doing this. It's easier money. They
don't have to build ad sales teams. They
don't have to negotiate with every brand
individually. Amazon does the heavy
lifting and they collect the revenue. So
what does this mean for you? It means
instead of managing five different
platforms with [music] five different
budgets and five different reports, you
can now buy Netflix, Spotify, Roku,
Disney Plus, and live sports like
Thursday Night Football all through one
platform. And this has happened before.
In the early 2000s, Google did the exact
same thing to search. Newspapers had
classified ads. Yellow pages had
directory [music] ads. Every city had
local ad networks. Google consolidated
all of it into one platform. And the
brands that adopted Google Ads early
from 2005 to 2010 built modes that still
exist today. We're at that moment again,
except this time it's streaming. Chapter
2, Amazon's unfair data advantage. Every
other platform is guessing what you
might want. Amazon already knows what
you bought last Tuesday. Let me show you
the difference. Google knows what you
search for. So if you search best dog
food, Google can show you a best dog
food ad. That's intent based on search
behavior. Facebook knows what you engage
with. So if you like pages about dogs,
Facebook can show you a dog food ad.
That's intent based on engagement. But
Amazon knows you bought dog food 3 weeks
ago. They know the brand. They know the
price. And they know roughly how long
it's going to last and that you're going
to buy it every single month. And they
know you're about to run out. So when
you're watching a show on Prime Video,
Amazon can show you the exact brand of
dog food with a buy now button. You
click on your remote, it's in your cart,
it shows up tomorrow. That's first party
purchase data at Amazon scale. And no
other major ad platform has that
combination. Now, here's where it gets
more interesting. This doesn't just work
for products sold on Amazon. It works
for any business. Let's say you run
electrician training program. Your
target customer is people interested in
highpaying skilled trades. How does
Amazon find them? They look at shopping
behavior. Who's buying multimeters and
wire strippers? Who's purchasing
electrical how-to books? Who's browsing
contractor grade tools? Those people get
your ad during Thursday Night Football.
The ad has an interactive button
overlaid on it. You pick up your Fire TV
remote or your general TV remote and
click okay and the email is sent to you
with more information. You get a lead.
Amazon use shopping behavior as a proxy
for intent. And it works for hotels,
software companies, professional
services, anyone with a customer who
buys anything on Amazon. And here's why
this matters more than ever. We're
living in a cookieless world.
Third-party cookies are dying. Facebook
and Google are losing targeting
precision every year. But Amazon's data
is first party. It doesn't need cookies.
They own the shopping behavior and that
data gets more valuable every single
day. Chapter 3. How programmatic
advertising actually works. Most people
hear programmatic and think it's
complicated. It's not. It's just
automated ad buy, but the way Amazon
does it is different from everyone else.
Here's how it works. You log into
Amazon's DSP. You upload your video ad.
You set your audience, men 25 to 45,
interested in fitness, who bought
running shoes in the last 30 days. You
set your budget, $10,000. You hit
launch. Now, Amazon Sulfur goes to work.
It bids on ads across Netflix, Disney
streaming properties, Spotify, Roku,
Prime Video, and live sports. It shows
your ad to people who match your
criteria, and it tracks everything. Now,
Amazon software goes to work. It bids on
ad slots across premium partners like
Disney streaming properties, Prime
Video, Live Sports, but also across
exchanges like Magnite Streaming that
have access to premium and standard
streaming content. It shows your ad to
people who match your criteria and it
tracks everything. Ad impressions,
clicks, website visits, add to cart,
purchase. For e-commerce brands,
Amazon's closed the entire loop. You can
see exactly which ad drove which sale.
For non-ecommerce brands, Amazon uses
something called household identity.
That's a fancy way of saying that they
know your TV, your phone, and your
laptop are all connected to the same
Wi-Fi. [music] So, if you see the ad on
TV and fill out a form on your phone, an
hour later, Amazon connects the dots. It
uses AMC, Amazon Marketing Cloud. It's a
privacy safe data bunker where they
cross reference your TV ad view with the
actual credit card swipe. And here's
what makes this different from
traditional TV. Traditional TV was
linear cable. OTT over the top is
streaming content delivered over the
internet instead of through a cable box.
Hulu, Netflix, Disney Plus are all OTT.
But within OTT, there's CTV, which is
connected TV. That's the device. Your
Roku, your Fire Stake, your Samsung
smart TV. Why does this distinction
matter? Because CTV ads are designed for
the big screen. You're 10 ft away from
your couch. You can't easily click. You
see an ad, it needs to be interactive,
so it has to have a QR code or memorable
brand. But OTT includes mobile ads.
They're just a foot away from your face.
Your thumb is on the screen. The ads
need a shop now button right there.
Amazon lets you target both. Same
campaign, different creative, optimized
for context. That's programmatic
advertising. It's not magic. It's just
software making thousands of decisions
per second based on the data you can
never process manually. And if you need
help setting all this up and you just
don't want to do it yourself, check out
our ad agency, NP Digital, where we do
this for hundreds of companies around
the world. Chapter 4, who can actually
use this? Amazon's DSP has minimums that
lock out 90% of small businesses. So,
let's be clear about the budget reality.
If you want to work directly with
Amazon's DSP, this usually isn't built
for small advertisers. Amazon
prioritizes brands with proven product
market fit and meaningful ongoing ad
spend. That said, you don't have to go
direct. Working through an agency can
open up doors in more flexible ways to
test and participate. Just like if you
work with us at NP Digital, we can help
you get in. So, who's this actually for?
First, e-commerce brands already winning
on Amazon. If you have consistent sales,
strong reviews, and real [music]
purchase data, Amazon DSP can help you
scale what's already working. Second,
mid-market brands with real performance
[music] budget. This is your testing
zone. Start with a portion of your ad
spend, run a structured test, and
measure the right signals. Brand search
lift, retargeting, full growth, and
assisted conversions, not just lastclick
rorowass. Third, enterprise brands. This
isn't a test. It's a strategic decision.
Do you consolidate more of your
streaming spend through Amazon DSP or
diversify across platforms like DV3 and
Trade? But if you're a small local
business with a limited budget, don't
force Amazon DSP up. Master Meta and
Google first. Build a reliable
acquisition engine. Then revisit this
when the budget matches the opportunity.
Now, I know what you're thinking. Neil,
this sounds like it's only for massive
brands. That used to be true and that's
what's changed. We recently reviewed a
campaign for a high-end service brand in
the education space. They didn't run a
massive national buy. Instead, they
focus on a tight geographic area where
they knew their ideal customer live. As
Dana Hines, our director of
programmatic, put it, "It doesn't have
to be national. If your audience is
niche enough, a focused budget can
actually move the needle." And the real
game changer wasn't where we ran the ad,
but how people interacted with it. A
viewer sees the ad on their TV with one
click of a remote. A text message must
be sent to their phone with the link to
book a consultation. You're taking
someone from awareness to lead without
them even leaving their couch. Now,
we've seen this movie before. In the
early days of Google Ads, it was cheap,
wide open, and most marketers ignored
it. A few years later, it became
expensive and unavoidable. That's
exactly where we are right now with
Amazon DSP. The inventory is still
relatively underpriced in a lot of
categories. But once more advertisers
pile in, the market tightens. The costs
go up. And that's just supply and
demand. The brands who move early don't
just get cheaper reach. They build the
playbook, learn the audience, and get a
head start. [music] And Amazon is making
the signal obvious. They're building
fullfunnel campaigns. They're pushing AI
optimization and they're investing
heavily into live sports. This isn't a
side project. It's a land grab. So, the
move is simple. If you're ready, start
testing now. If you're not ready yet,
build toward it. Because in a couple
years, this won't feel like an option.
It'll feel like the new baseline. This
isn't about trying a new ad platform.
It's about recognizing a platform
consolidation moment. The question is,
are you early or are you late? If you
want to see how the rest of marketing is
shifting and where the next
opportunities are, watch one of these
videos next.